# NLP_NYT_Women-Representation
Insights from a Century of New York Times Articles: leveraging SpaCy to analyze women's representation in the news.


With AI and tools such as chatGPT making headlines recently, many of us started wondering how computers can analyze, understand, and generate human language. This is where NLP (Natural Language Processing) comes in. Our team wanted to learn more about NLP and explore various NLP techniques and see if we can gain insight into excerpts of human text using techniques such as preprocessing, sentiment analysis, and topic analysis. Hence, for this project, we set out to work with a dataset of New York Times articles from 1920-2020 to explore the relationship between women and the news. We wanted to know how often and when women were mentioned in the news over time. How frequently were women mentioned compared to men? Were articles mentioning women more likely to have family-oriented topics? Were they polarized? How did this change over time?

To answer these questions, we extracted features such as common topics, people, and places discussed in the titles and excerpts of articles for each decade, and determined how often women are mentioned in the news over the decades. We also wanted to assess the common sentiments associated with women in the news and examine whether the sentiment in articles involving women has shifted over time. Our analysis suggests that while progress has been made in terms of women's representation in the media, there is still a long way to go in terms of fully recognizing and representing the diversity of women's experiences and achievements.
